intro - why program, discovery
middle - creation, creativity, uncertainty, validation, learning
end - what is possible. force for good? motivation



In my experience, the term 'programming' is a commonly impenetrable term to those not familiar. Many interpretations can exist and i have personally seen the term interpreted as a catch-all phrase for any computer-based activity that involves 'fiddling around' with it. Those whom are passionate about a particular activity or field can not help but feel slightly pained when their subject of interest is mistakenly but innocently generalised to something broader, in a way that risks obscuring the very magic and appeal of it.

I have a personal interest and investment in the subject of Astronomy. I have on many occasions enjoyed discussing with and helping to educate friends or strangers on the subject. Sometimes this takes place under a starry night sky. On more spectacular occasions i have been armed with a telescope with which to share amazing views of our solar system. I have witnessed in third-person the thrill of somebody seeing Saturn with the naked eye for the very first time. Perhaps most spectacular is the reaction to the in-your-face appearance of the moon when viewed at 200x magnification, and the impossible level of detail which explodes through the eyepiece. Seeing these sights with your own eyes is a completely unique experience to just looking at pictures of these objects. This is just the tip with the iceberg with the wonders of Astronomy. In contrast, the term 'Astrology' means something completely different, yet is sometimes genuinely confused by well-meaning people with Astronomy, and not just for the similar-sounding name. The field of Astronomy can appear inaccessible since it appears very abstract from every day life.

So it is with programming, perhaps even more so. Writing code is a very abstract discipline, for the code does nothing until it is run. It is full of meaning to the trained programmer, but to somebody untrained in the art, viewing a piece of code for the first time can be overwhelming; the code appearing empty of obvious meaning. If i think hard i can remember the feeling of complete intimidation i felt when first viewed a block of code that somebody else had written. It seemed impossible to me that any human could have constructed, through reasoned thoughts and actions, what i saw as a mess of characters. And yet it seems that once formally introduced to the subject, over the course of just a few weeks or months of good instruction and exposure, it is possible to cross the gap from incomprehension, to understanding, to an actual working knowledge.
